Nabeel Khan 

+1 (431) 373-3795 

me@nabeelkhan.com 

 

Summary 

•  Technology  and  business  visionary  with  hands-on  18+  years  of  experience  in  automating 
IT 
multi-billion-dollar  enterprises.  Strong  Political  and  business  acumen 
architectures  and  infrastructures.  Proven  ability  to  bring  Artificial  Intelligence  benefits  to  solve 
business, decreasing costs, and minimizing risks. 12+ of building cloud-based infrastructure solutions. 

in  creating  robust 

• 

Extensive  experience 

in  process  modeling,  business  systems  analysis,  application 
development, enterprise resource planning and transforming business requirements  into analytical 
models,  developing  data  mining,  recovery,  and  business  solutions  that  scale  across  the  massive 
volume of structured and unstructured data utilizing various data sources. 

• 

The  talent  of  proactively  identifying  and  solving  problems  with  a  research  mindset  – 
automating systems to maximize productivity by discovering patterns, formulate and test hypotheses, 
developing metrics, translating results into strategies using different kinds of technical solutions. 

•  Proven  record  of  building  solutions  from  ideas,  delivering,  piloting,  and  driving  several 

business applications into production.  

•  Well versed with Agile Scrum framework, IT Service Management (ITSM) and Business Analysis 
Body  of  Knowledge;  Corporate  Communications  within  which  people  can  address  complex  adaptive 
problems while productively and creatively delivering products of the highest possible value. Define 
the data governance, management, and ownership frameworks to ensure data quality is created and 
maintained.  

Skills 

•  Business Acumen & Leadership 
•  IT Operations & Management skills 
•  Program Management & Development 
•  Predictive & Prescriptive Analysis 
•  Communication and Collaboration skills 
•  Electronic Commerce Strategy/Development 

•  Strong analytical & problem solving 
•  Machine & Deep Learning Skills 
•  Project Management & Delivery 
•  Data & Quantitative Analysis 
•  Solution & Decision Analysis 
•  Business Process Modeling & Improvement  

Experience 
Chief Solutions Architect 
 

• 

Monsterhub, Inc 
Brisbane, Australia 

 
2 Year  
October 2018 to Current 
Leading  an  off-shore  technical  team  of  12  multinational  members  spanning  over  three 
countries involved in designing, developing, optimizing, and supporting various Business and 
AI applications for clients powered by serverless and container architecture using AWS cloud 
services. 

 

•  Analyzing 

the 

technology  environment, 

identify  enterprise  specifics,  documenting 

requirements, and setting the collaboration framework within the stakeholders. 

• 

Identify areas of poor performance in the product and ensure products are met with current 
in  technology  selection,  make  recommendations  for 
industry  standards.  Participating 
improvement, identify the need for data recovery, governance, and growth. Lead the company 

 

Page 1 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

in the creating  solutions prototype, and execution of projects and managing the technical 
team  for  solution  development,  project  management  and  propose  new  machine  learning 
solutions to enhance business operations. 

•  Planned and executed research and development of NLP-based AI solution utilizing NLTK while 
exploring other models to recognize the suicide threats from the chat conversation, real-time 
facial  recognition  expression,  gender,  emotion,  distraction,  and  object  detection  for  AI 
Proctoring system.  

• 

• 

Ensure adherence  to a  consistent,  standardized service delivery model rooted in IT Service 
Management (ITSM) best practices and work with technical and development teams to deploy 
models. Build Model Performance Reports and Modeling Technical Documentation to support 
each of the models for the product line. 

Lead strategic planning to achieve business goals by identifying and prioritizing development 
initiatives and setting timetables for the evaluation, development, and deployment of all SaaS 
and  ML  services.  Documenting  machine  learning  experience  and  share  with  stakeholders, 
explaining the cost & benefit analysis. 

Chief Solutions Architect 
 

Council of Ministers 
State of Kuwait 

December 2014 to April 2018 
•  Applied strategic business analysis and expertise in Information Systems services by working 
closely  with  the  business  units  to  gain  an  in-depth  understanding  of  Statewide  hiring  of 
Citizens,  processes,  services,  roadmap,  and  designed  skill-based  assessments  system 
prototype, which increased hiring response by 96% resulting signed into law by late Amir of 
Kuwait. 

3 Years 

• 

• 

• 

Spearheaded  development  of  proto-type  system  for  Civil  Service  Commission  Kuwait,  to 
centralized Statewide hiring of Citizens, and designed skill-based assessments system, which 
increased hiring response by 96% resulting signed into law by Amir of Kuwait in 2018.  

Executed Activity Based Costing and Cost-Benefit Analysis for technology platforms (including 
web/Mobile application frameworks and the deployment stack) for delivering the services. 

Identified  technology  trends  and  evolving  social  behaviors,  supported  by  evidence-based 
analysis  impeding  customer  satisfaction  and  business  success.  Led  a  team  of  professionals 
from  different  business  units  responsible  for  implementing  an  automated  service  delivery 
focused  web  services.  Evaluated  the  re-engineered  processes  and  successfully  increased 
website visits by 150K monthly and HR production by 76%. 

•  Demonstrated experience with Advanced Analytical Environment and technologies within an 

organization of equivalent size and complexity to the Government. 

•  Actively involved in the full Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) forecasting model to be 
used  in integrated  hiring  and  planning.  Conducted  Marketing  Mix  Measurement,  campaign 
analysis,  program  optimization,  customer  segmentation,  ROI  analysis,  and  predictive 
modeling. 

• 

Identified  technology  trends  and  evolving  social  behaviors,  supported  by  evidence-based 
analysis  impeding  customer  satisfaction  and  business  success.  Led  a  team  of  professionals 

 

Page 2 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

from  different  business  units  responsible  for  implementing  an  automated  service  delivery 
focused  web  service,  which  successfully  increased  website  visits  by  100K  monthly  and  HR 
production by 76%.  

Chief Solutions Architect 
 

Ministry of Planning 
State of Kuwait 

3 Years 
January 2011 to October 2014 
•  Directed  development  and  deployment  of  Kuwait  Register  Based  Census  System  (KRBCS), 
Data warehouse with Business Intelligence based on various terabytes of data sources through 
phased,  iterative  releases  -  each  delivered  on  time  and  within  budget  applied  principles  of 
agile  methodologies.  KRBCS  is  primarily  designed  to  produce  statistical  reports,  Predictive 
modeling, forecasting and outlier detection required by the State of Kuwait, Central Statistical 
Office and UNDP. 

•  Defined scope and identified high-risk areas for integration between core statistical system 
and multiple existing systems; Defined functional and non-functional business requirements 
for  Centralizing  Data  warehouse  containing  data  from  government  registries,  i.e.,  Civil 
Information, Tax Revenue, Interior, Justice, and Municipal.  

•  Analyzed complex data flows and data elements for specific use cases using case diagrams and 
defined requirements traceability across the project lifecycle and used process modeling tools 
(BPMN) to describe processes and requirements. 

•  Analyzed and implementing unsupervised machine learning algorithms to identify and extract 
Parent-child  relationships  to  solve  hidden  polygamous  marriages,  to  detect  the  hidden 
patterns of Unreported Income, using Centroid divisive hierarchical clustering and Gaussian 
mixture methods.  

•  Designed  &  Developed  architecture,  methodology,  and  strategy  for  harvesting  900  central 
statistical office census rules, utilizing Clustering and classification algorithms, SQL procedures 
for capturing and documenting business rules, for data verification, improving data quality by 
90% as compared to the manual system. 

• 

Sr. Systems Architect &  
Project Manager 

Tawasul Telecom 
State of Kuwait 

2 Years  
September 2008 to December 2010 
Translating  product  roadmaps  and  feature  requests  into  models,  workflow  diagrams,  user 
stories,  acceptance  criteria,  and  understanding  design,  business 
logic,  and  technical 
architecture  of  customer  platform  components  and  how  they  interact  with  the  rest  of  the 
platform to deliver integrated solutions. 

•  Developed predictive causal model using annual failure rate and standard cost basis for the 
new  bundled  services.  Working  with  product  management,  development,  and  other 
departments to actively remove obstacles blocking progress and ensure the program is within 
schedule 

•  Develop change management and data quality processes to ensure that users of data can focus 
on  insights.  Led  the  design  and  development  of  visualization  tools  for  business  units  by 
publishing  KPIs/Metrics  to  measure  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  managed  solutions 
portfolio. 

 

Page 3 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

• 

Supporting  product  management,  marketing,  sales,  professional  services,  training,  and 
technical 
training,  documentation, 
announcements, and other release activities 

release  process  with 

throughout 

support 

the 

•  Developed an Estimation model for various product & services bundled offering to optimize 

and predict the gross margin 

•  Created work estimates, track progress, and report status in the form of burn up/down charts 

and prioritizing and grooming their teams’ backlog. 

•  Build  and trained  4 Project managers,  implemented  department  level standards, developed 
implementation  handbooks,  database  recovery  manual,  and  other  technical 

Solution 
documentation. 

Senior Systems Architect 
 

Zain Group 
Khartoum, Sudan 

1 Year  
October 2007 to August 2008 
•  Designed and Implemented two nodes for billing and three nodes for history, eCare, and web 
portal Oracle Real Application Cluster. Using Data Guard, Oracle Streams and Oracle Flashback 
Technology to ensure 24 x 7 business continuity. 

• 

Implementing  a  combination  of  MAA  to  achieve  2.5  minutes  downtime  for  12  Oracle 
databases using Oracle Real Application Clusters, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Streams, Oracle 
Flashback Technology, and Automatic Storage Management (ASM). 

•  Project Manager for data migration from the old billing system (Mobex and Apex) on Informix 

to oracle (Telecommunication Administration and Billing System: TABS).  

•  Collaborated with data engineers and operation team to implement the ETL process, wrote 

and optimized SQL queries to perform data extraction to fit the analytical requirements. 

• 

Explored and analyzed the customer-specific features by using Matplotlib and performed data 
imputation using Scikit-learn package in Python. Worked on data cleaning and ensured data 
quality, consistency, integrity using Pandas, NumPy. 

•  Worked  with  data  compliance  teams,  Data  governance  team  to  maintain  data  models, 

Metadata, Data Dictionaries; define source fields and its definitions. 

•  Deployed tuning techniques to optimize database response time with over 40 million records 
updates per 5 minutes. Designed and implemented data load procedure for web portal and 
data warehouse, reducing 70% of data loading time. 

•  Decreased software-licensing cost by 50% ($1.2 Million) by designing architectural standards 
for the CSX database infrastructure and implementing only required database technologies for 
new business operations.  

IT Manager 
 

Z-Investment 
State of Kuwait 

2 Years  
October 2005 to September 2007 
•  Planned, organized, and managed startup data processing operations, including implementing 
a dedicated channel for stock trading and an eCommerce platform for portfolio holders under 
the finance director's general direction. 

 

Page 4 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

•  Planned,  scheduled,  and  supervised  the  implementation  of  Oracle  Financials  &  Oracle 
Collaboration Suit for the company and the entire group to save an estimated $20K annually.  

•  Provide technical expertise to other departments concerning operational priorities, evaluate 
the  company’s  data  processing  needs,  meet  and  coordinate  activities  with  data  processing 
vendors, determine equipment needs, and make assessments.  

•  Responsible  for  equipment  procurement  and 

installation,  aiding  other  departments; 
evaluating  and  recommending  appropriate  programs,  monitoring  and  assessing  installed 
applications, and meeting with users to determine data processing needs.  

• 

Seasonally identify and fix information system problems, determine new system requirements, 
modifications,  or  upgrades  necessary  to  existing  systems,  create  systems  and  supporting 
documentation,  oversee  and  coordinate  overall  systems  development  and  modification  of 
applications software. 

• 

Effectively hired and trained system administrator and a team of two junior developers.   

Senior Systems Analyst 

Kuwait Insurance Company 
 State of Kuwait 

4 Years  
December 2001 to September 2005 
•  Performed analysis on claims vs. insurance and overall trends using multiple data sources to 
lead  team  members  to  develop  Premium  calculation  engine  implemented  in  business 
applications. 

• 

Translated the business needs into detailed business requirement specifications.  

•  Created high-level and detailed UML activity diagrams, use cases, and decision matrices for all 

requirements.  

•  Actively  participated  in  planning,  resourcing,  and  execution  of advanced  analytics  products 
and projects across a variety of business units namely, Insurance, Re-Writing, Shareholder and 
Dividend processing, Claims departments. 

•  Collaborated  and  Coordinated  with  multiple  business  units  during  the  development  cycle, 

conveyed complex technical issues to diverse and senior audiences. 

• 

Translated Business requirements into System specifications for effective communication with 
both technical and non-technical individuals. 

Database Administrator 
 

Kuwait Insurance Company 
State of Kuwait 

2 Years 
September 1999 to December 2001 
•  Responsible  for  designing,  creating,  installing,  configuring,  and  maintaining  Three  (3) 
production Oracle databases used for business applications deployed on Digital Alpha Servers 
HP- TRU64 UNIX, Windows 2000 and Red Hat Linux servers. 

•  Designed and configured a 2-Node and a 4-Node Oracle 9i RAC (Real Application Cluster) using 
data guard to replicate to 2 standby databases as a high-availability solution for the medical 
claim system used online. Setup and administer 9i Physical Standby databases as part of the 
disaster recovery strategy; this meets the 15-minute maximum downtime requirement by the 
CEO. 

 

Page 5 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

• 

• 

The technical architect for the data warehouse with an input of over 250 approx. F iles every 
month from various sources.  Developed an automated process that would validate, cleanse 
and  report  aggregated  erroneous  data,  alert  business  users,  and  substantially  ease  support 
effort — interacted with developers to ensure proper loading of data. 

Tuned  SQL  statements,  programmed  security  policies  through  roles  and  database  triggers, 
managed all Oracle Objects (Tables, Indexes, Views, Procedures, Triggers, Functions), analyzed 
tables, reorganized indexes, rebuilding indexes and constraints as needed.  

•  Applied Archive files for Time Based Recovery, using Import, Export, Cold backups to replicate 

and reproduce database to point in time. 

Education 

•  Bachelor of Computer Science (BCS), 1999 
•  Master of Computer Science (MCS), 2010 - Thesis Title: Automated Data Mapping in Register 

Based Census Arabic 

Certifications and Professional Training 
• 

Leading Strategic Innovation 
 (Vanderbilt University) 

Solution Selling by Solution Science 

•  Artificial Intelligence for Business 
•  Gamification (UPENN) 
• 
•  Real Applications Clusters 
•  Data Modeling Concepts 
•  RDBMS & Data Warehousing Concepts 
 

•  A Beginner's Guide to Irrational Behavior 

 (Duke University) 

•  Data Analysis (Johns Hopkins University) 
•  Machine Learning: Real-World Applications 
•  Certified Oracle Professional 8/9i/10g 
•  Implementing Netscreen Security Gateways 
•  Software Business Analysis 
•  Ethical Hacking 

 

Page 6 of 6 

