Nabeel Khan 

Executive Profile 

Director Information Technology (IT) 
+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
 

• 
Technology and business visionary with executive  hands-on 18+ years of experience 
in  automating  multi-billion-dollar  enterprises.  Strong  Political  and  business  acumen  in 
creating robust IT architectures and infrastructures. Proven ability to bring the benefits of 
Artificial Intelligence to solve business, decreasing costs, and minimizing risks. twelve years 
of building cloud-based solutions. 

• 
Well versed with Agile Scrum framework & Corporate Communications within which 
people can address complex adaptive problems while productively and creatively delivering 
products  of  the  highest  possible  value.  Define  the  data  governance,  management,  and 
ownership frameworks that will ensure data quality is created and maintained.  

• 
Expertise in transforming business requirements into analytical models, designing 
algorithms,  building  models,  developing  data  mining,  and  reporting  solutions  that  scale 
across the massive volume of structured and unstructured data. 

• 
The talent of proactively identifying and solving problems with research mindset – 
controlling  costs,  automating  systems  to  maximize  productivity  and  ROI  by  using  Data 
Science, Analytics, and Artificial Intelligence in predictive analysis, facial recognition, text 
analysis, recommendation systems, targeting systems and ranking systems using Python. 

• 
Proven record of  accomplishment piloting and  driving several businesses  into  new 
marketplaces.  Strong  business  acumen  with  experience  identifying  and  securing  alliance 
partnerships, identifying markets, managing the sales cycle, and development.  

• 
Extensive  experience  in  providing  a  business  solution  that  enhances  productivity 
improves the process, drives sustained performance, and maximizes revenue potential. Led 
development and deployment of Competitive Strategies to optimize business processes. 

Skill Highlights 

•  Business Acumen & Leadership 
•  IT Operations & Management skills 
•  Program Management & Development 
•  Vendor Management 
•  Communication and Collaboration skills 
•  Electronic Commerce 
Strategy/Development 

Professional Experience 

AI Director 
(Information Technology) 

Monsterhub, Inc 
Winnipeg, Canada 

•  Strong analytical & problem solving 
•  Machine & Deep Learning Skills 
•  Project Management & Delivery 
•  Data Analysis & Architecture 
•  Solution Assessment & Validation 
•  Business Process Modeling & 

Improvement  

 

2 Year  
October 2018 to Current 

 

A SaaS company based out of Brisbane, Australia, providing tools and innovative solutions 
to clients like HelloWork, Memory App, and Hush in Canada. Directing an off-shore technical 
team of twelve multinational members spanning over three countries involved in designing, 
developing, optimizing and supporting Machine learning applications.  

 

Page 1 of 7 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

Oversee and  manage on-going research  and  develop product  requirements  leveraging  new 
tools,  libraries  and  frameworks  in  ML,  AWS  Cloud  (Lambda,  Serverless,  and  container) 
technologies. Analyze technology and architectural choices to support build vs. buy, conduct 
cost-benefit  analysis  and  present  to  senior  management  for  review.  Provide  technical 
leadership in deploying machine learning tools, AI Integrations using cloud infrastructure, 
for quick proto-typing and idea testing.  

Planned and executed research and development of various NLP based AI solution utilizing 
NLTK while exploring other models for Topic Extraction, Applied RNN Bidirectional LSTM to 
recognize the threat from the chat conversation and Name Entity Recognition using SpaCy. 
Implemented  various  validation  methods  in  Scikit-learn  to  measure  the  performance  and 
the best hyperparameter for the classifier.  

Leading team to build facial recognition using DeepFace, TensorFlow, Keras, and OpenCV for 
facial,  expression,  gender,  emotion,  distraction,  and  object  detection  on  a  real-time  basis 
integrated into business application using Google Kubernetes engine. Investigate business 
cases utilizing analytical applications/libraries like Seaborn and Tableau to identify trends 
and  relationships  between  different  pieces  of  (Structured  and  unstructured)  data,  draw 
appropriate  conclusions  and  translate  analytical  findings  into  marketing  strategies  that 
drive value. 

Summarize an understanding of different ML algorithms and their strengths and weaknesses 
for  the  non-ML  business  users  and  explain  their  use  case.  Authorize  and  encourage  team 
members  to  build  deep  learning  libraries  using  RNN  &  CNN.  Design  cheat  sheets  covering 
machine learning, neural network, and deep learning to coach team members. 

Ensuring  the  adherence  to  a  consistent  standardized  service  delivery  model  rooted  in  IT 
Service Management (ITSM) best practices and work with technical and development teams 
to deploy models. Build Model Performance Reports and Modeling Technical Documentation 
to support each of the models for the product line. 

Identify  areas  of  poor  performance  in  the  product  and  ensure  products  met  with  current 
industry standards. Make recommendations for improvement; identify the need for further 
machine learning enhancement.  

Lead  strategic  planning  to  achieve  business  goals  by  identifying  and  prioritizing 
development  initiatives  and  setting  timetables  for  the  evaluation,  development,  and 
deployment  of  all  SaaS  and  ML  services.  Documenting  machine  learning  experience  and 
share with stakeholders, explaining the cost & benefit analysis.  

Chief Technology Officer 
 

Council of Ministers 
State of Kuwait 

3 Years 
December 2014 to April 2018 

Chief  consultant  on  technology  to  the  General  Director  of  Social  Development  Office  and 
Minister of Council of Ministers. Member of IT Steering Committee for internal government 
agencies including CAIT (Central Agency for Information Technology), translating complex 
business  and  operational  problems  into  technical  solution  design.  Advisor  to  senior 
executive country leaders in drawing up the technology roadmap for the Ministry. 

 

Page 2 of 7 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

Perform Data Profiling to learn about behaviors using descriptive statistics and Identified 
challenges and arranged areas of improvement and put best practices in place;  

Directed  (in-house  and  out-sourced)  IT  teams,  technology  partners,  and  contractors  to 
explore strategic Cloud application platform implementations for quick prototyping while 
extensively  evaluating  multiple  serverless  and  microservices  architecture  to  address 
ongoing  security,  scalability,  performance,  and  platform  availability  for  government 
institutes. 

Accomplished  implementing  EC2,  S3,  Aurora,  DynamoDB,  from  Amazon  Web  Services  for 
Social Development Office as a test project to validate the feasibility of the adoption of cloud 
infrastructure.  Applied  Activity  Based  Costing  and  Cost-Benefit  analysis  for  technology 
platforms (including web/Mobile applications, frameworks, the deployment stack, and SaaS 
or IaaS product experience) for delivering the services for local business units spanning over 
7  Government  agencies,  capitalized  on  existing  infrastructure  and  streamlined  future 
spending.  

Developed  a  comprehensive,  nation-wide  functional  and  UAT  test  plans  and  performed 
detailed  testing on  three  application  developments  and  implementations, a  major private 
cloud upgrade, and a significant consolidation of three legacy systems resulted in saving of 
more than $340K yearly. 

Spearheaded  development  of  proto-type  system  for  Civil  Service  Commission  Kuwait,  to 
centralized  Statewide  hiring  of  Citizens,  and  designed  skill-based  assessments  system, 
which increased hiring response by 96% resulting signed into law by Amir of Kuwait in 2018.  

Identified  latest  technology  trends,  in  Machine  Learning  and  Cloud  infrastructure, 
supported by evidence-based analysis impeding customer satisfaction and business success. 

IT Project Director 
 

Kuwait University 
State of Kuwait 

3 Years 
January 2011 to October 2014 

Hired by Center of Excellence, a business unit of Kuwait University established to undertake 
strategic Government research and development; to lead a  team  of 23 members consist of 
DBA’s,  developers, data  analysts, BI an alysts,  QA and statisticians.  Aim  of this  $3  Million 
R&D project was to deliver a proto-type of Digital Census system for the end client, Central 
Statistics Office- Ministry of Planning, Kuwait.  

Directed design, development and deployment of pilot project code-named Kuwait Register 
Based Census System (KRBCS), Data warehouse with Business Intelligence based on Oracle 
and  Cognos  technologies  through  phased,  iterative  releases  -  each  delivered  on  time  and 
within budget using applied principles of agile methodologies. KRBCS primarily designed to 
produce statistical report sets required by the authorities and CSO (Central Statistical Office 
– Kuwait) by utilizing data from 11 other government registries.  

Defined scope and identified high-risk areas for integration between core statistical system 
and  multiple  existing  systems;  Defined 
functional  and  non-functional  business 
requirements for Centralizing Data warehouse containing data from government registries 
i.e., Civil Information, Tax Revenue, Interior. 

 

Page 3 of 7 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

Facilitate  meetings  and  requirements  gathering  workshops  with  senior  ministry  officials, 
general  directors,  ministers,  and stakeholders  during the  project life  cycle  and  negotiated 
challenging  solutions.  Implemented  concepts  of  the  scrum  and  agile  management 
methodologies, led  sprint  reviews  and  daily scrum  meetings  to touch base  with the  entire 
development team and ensure that all members were performing satisfactorily. 

Responsible for task order delivery, project plan, concept of operations, functional (process) 
requirements  and traceability,  the scope of services,  resource  assignments,  and  managing 
stakeholder  expectations.  Used  BPMN  and  use-case  to  build  a  business  case.  The  rapid 
prototyping  approach  provided  stakeholders  demonstrative  results  early  in  development 
and allowed continuous refinement. 

Analyzed complex data flows and data elements for specific use cases using case diagrams 
and defined requirements traceability across the project lifecycle and used process modeling 
tools (BPMN) to define process and requirements for each.  

Created an innovative method of capturing and documenting business rules, Designed the 
business rules architecture, methodology and strategy for harvesting 900 central statistical 
office census rules, improving data quality by 80% as compared to the manual system. 

Sr. Project Manager 
 

HP – AL- Khaldiya 
State of Kuwait 

1 Year  
March 2010 to December 2010 

Responsible  for  all  aspects  of  strategic  IT  planning,  implementation,  and  support 
nationwide clients as an integral component of a  business plan. Engineered turnaround of 
IT's performance and service levels. Transform IT into a strategic business partner, Manage 
and  deliver  multiple  large-scale  projects  on  time  and  within  budget.  Responsible  for 
budgeting, design and support of all technology 

Increased sales by 34% by Identifying critical factors for outsourcing success from Strategic, 
Technology,  and  Financial  perspectives  for  Opex  for  existing  customers  and  evaluate  the 
business model for managed services within the group.  

Developed  managed  services  strategy  and  conducted  market  segmentation  to  achieve  the 
managed service sales target. Evaluated business cases and TCO (total cost of ownership) for 
managed services and introduced and successfully delivered managed services products in 
coordination with HP. 

Directed sales team for new customer acquisition by developing new products as per market 
needs and implementing innovative sales strategies. Raising awareness of managed service 
to  the  customers.  Assisting  account  managers in  identifying  opportunities  and  providing 
technical pre-sales support when required. 

Pre-Sales Consultant &  
IT Project Manager 

Tawasul Telecom 
State of Kuwait 

2 Years  
September 2008 to January 2010 

A new startup by Gulf Investment Company focusing on as a one-stop-shop providing with 
MPLS (Multi-Protocol Level Switching) Pan-GCC connectivity services. Primary responsible 
for design solutions based on products and services offered by the company to end client and 
lead the project to closure after successful sales. 

 

Page 4 of 7 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

Explored  and  analyzed  customer's  managed  services  requirements,  make  an  end-to-end 
service  solution.  Define  service  baselines  and  provide  a  competitive  managed  services 
solution to fulfill customer's requirements.  

Created a new revenue stream, projected for $2.8  million by utilizing existing investment 
in  technology  infrastructure.  Introducing  the  concept  of  Managed  Applications  and 
Managed Database launched in GCC serving external customers as Primary or DR site cutting 
operational cost by 50%.  

Designed and implemented policies and procedures for managed services and for pre-sales 
and  project  management  departments  working  closely  with  sales  to  create  prospects  and 
pipeline.  

Build  and  trained  team  of  4  Project  managers  and  Pre-Sales  consultants,  implemented 
standards  and  Polices  on  the  department  level.  Developed  Solution  implementation 
handbooks, database recovery manual, application hosting feasibility, project management, 
and pre-sale documentation.  

Managed  and  wrote  a  complete  set  of  detailed  system  specifications  for  new  and  existing 
applications, included all high-level and detailed requirements such as ERDs, XML schema 
and activity diagrams. 

Database & Licensing 
Consultant 

Zain Group 
Khartoum, Sudan 

1 Year  
October 2007 to July 2008 

Mobile Telecommunications is a Kuwaiti mobile telecommunications company founded in 
1983 in Kuwait as MTC and later rebranded as Zain in 2007. Zain has a commercial presence 
in eight countries across the Middle East & Africa, with 350 million active customers. 

Responsible for restructuring the IT department database group that required working with 
the  UNIX,  networking,  application,  and  disk  storage  groups.  Implemented  backup  and 
recovery  standards,  business  disaster  planning  and  resumption  strategies.  Also  defined 
complete  Oracle  departmental  standards  and  designed  and  implemented  a  system  for 
problem tracking.  

Implemented  TimesTen  in  Memory  database  exclusively  to  server  1.8  million  prepaid 
subscribers and replicated to TimesTen on disaster recovery site. 

Designed and Implemented two nodes for billing and three nodes for history, eCare and web 
portal  Oracle  Real  Application  Cluster.  Using  Data  Guard,  Oracle  Streams  and  Oracle 
Flashback Technology to ensure 24 x 7 business continuity. 

Deployed  tuning  techniques  to  optimize  database  response  time  with  over  40  million 
records  updates  per  5  minutes.  Designed  and  implemented  data  load  procedure  for  web 
portal and data warehouse reducing 70% of data loading time.  

Implementing  a  combination  of  MAA  to  achieve  2.5  minutes  downtime,  for  12  Oracle 
databases using Oracle Real Application Clusters, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Streams, Oracle 
Flashback Technology, and Automatic Storage Management (ASM). 

 

Page 5 of 7 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

Project  Manager  for  data  migration  from  the  old  billing  system  (Mobex  and  Apex)  on 
Informix  to  oracle  (Telecommunication  Administration  and  Billing  System:  TABS). 
Supported  Developer  to  write  codes,  procedures,  and  triggers  to  ensure  optimal  system 
performance. Review database access code and recommend tuning opportunities. 

Decreased  software-licensing  cost  by  50%  ($1.2  Million)  by  designing  architectural 
standards  for  the  CSX  database  infrastructure  and  implementing  only  required  database 
technologies for new business operations.  

IT Manager 
 

Z-Investment 
State of Kuwait 

2 Years  
October 2005 to September 2007 

Responsible  for staffing  and s etting  up  the  IT  department  for  a  newly  formed  Investment 
company owned by well-known business families in Kuwait.  

Analyzed  and  re-designed  IT  processes  for  accuracy  and  significant  efficiency  and 
performance gains, saving an  estimated $10K in annual company costs by implementing a 
paperless environment. 

Directed implementation of Oracle Financials & Oracle Collaboration Suit for the company 
and the entire group to save an estimated $20K annually. 

Directed  Implementation  of  an  eCommerce  website  to  build  online  stock  trading  for  its 
clients and portfolio holders to achieve maximum performance for productivity.  

Identified  technologies  and  costs  to  implement  various  systems,  including  VOIP  across 
subsidiaries,  to  reduce  the  cost  of  communication.  Effectively  hired  and  trained  system 
administrator and the team of two junior developers.   

Senior Systems Analyst 

Kuwait Insurance Company 
 State of Kuwait 

4 Years  
December 2001 to September 2005 

One of the oldest and largest insurance company, listed on Kuwait Stock Exchange with more 
than 500 employees in the State of Kuwait. Worked under the direction of the IT manager 
with a technical team of 7 members.  

Saved USD 1.2 Million by Designing and actively leading the team for five (5) developers to 
build three (3) applications modules based on Oracle technologies integrated with the legacy 
financial and Re-Insurance system. 

Individual Life Insurance & Claim system 

• 
•  Group life and Medical Insurance & Claim system 
•  Shareholder management and divided processing system 

Coordinated with multiple business units during the development cycle, conveyed complex 
technical issues to diverse and senior audiences, and translated Business requirements into 
System specifications.  

 

Page 6 of 7 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

Translated  the  business  needs  into  detailed  business  requirement  specifications.  Created 
high-level  and  detailed  UML  activity  diagrams,  use  cases,  and  decision  matrices  for  all 
requirements.  

Database Administrator 
 

Kuwait Insurance Company 
State of Kuwait 

2 Years 
September 1999 to December 2001 

Responsible  for  designing,  creating,  installing,  configuring  and  maintaining  Three  (3) 
Oracle databases used for business applications deployed on Digital Alpha Servers HP- TRU64 
UNIX, Windows 2000 and Red Hat Linux servers. 

Designed  and  configured  a  2-Node  and  a  4-Node  Oracle  9i  RAC  (Real  Application  Cluster) 
using data guard to replicate to 2 standby databases as a high-availability solution for the 
medical  claim system used online. Setup  and administer  9i Physical Standby  databases as 
part  of  the  disaster  recovery  strategy;  this  meets  the  15-minute  maximum  downtime 
requirement by CEO. 

The technical architect for the data warehouse with an input of over 250 approx. Files every 
month from various customers. Integrated a process that would validate, cleanse and report 
aggregated  erroneous  data,  alert  business  users  and  substantially  ease  support  effort  — 
interacted with developers to ensure proper loading of data. 

Tuned SQL statements,  programmed  security  policies  through  roles and  database triggers, 
managed  all  Oracle  Objects  (Tables,  Indexes,  Views,  Procedures,  Triggers,  Functions), 
analyzed  tables,  reorganized  indexes,  rebuilding  indexes  and  constraints  as  needed. 
Applying  Archive  files  for  Time  Based  Recovery,  using  Import,  Export,  Cold  backups  to 
replicate and reproduce database to point in time. 

Education 

Bachelor of Computer Science (BCS), 1999 

• 
•  Master of Computer Science (MCS), 2010 - Thesis Title: Automated Data Mapping in 

Register Based Census 

Certifications and Professional Training 

•  Leading Strategic Innovation 

 (Vanderbilt University) 

•  Artificial Intelligence for Business 
•  Gamification (UPENN) 
•  Solution Selling by Solution Science 
•  Real Applications Clusters 
•  Data Modeling Concepts 
•  RDBMS & Data Warehousing Concepts 

References 

•  A Beginner's Guide to Irrational Behavior 

 (Duke University) 

•  Data Analysis (Johns Hopkins University) 
•  Machine Learning: Real-World Applications 
•  Certified Oracle Professional 8/9i/10g 
•  Implementing Netscreen Security Gateways 
•  Software Business Analysis 
•  Ethical Hacking 

•  Retired Director General Council of Ministers - Kuwait 
•  Ex. Director Center of Excellence - Kuwait University 
•  Ex. Dean of Business College - Kuwait University 
•  Retired Director General Ministry of Planning - Kuwait 
•  Ex. Minister of Planning - Kuwait 

 

Page 7 of 7 

