Nabeel Khan 

+1 (431) 373-3795 

me@nabeelkhan.com 

Winnipeg, Canada 

 

Summary 

•  Technology and business visionary with hands-on 18+ years of experience in automating multi-

billion-dollar enterprises.  

• 

Extensive  experience 

in  process  modelling,  business  systems  analysis,  application 
development,  enterprise  resource  planning  and  transforming  business  requirements  into  analytical 
models, developing data mining, recovery and business solutions that scale across the massive volume 
of structured and unstructured data utilizing various data sources. 

• 

The  talent  of  proactively  identifying  and  solving  problems  with  research  mindset  and 
information-gathering  approach  –  automating  systems  to  maximize  productivity  by  discovering 
patterns, formulate and test hypotheses, developing metrics, translating results into strategies using 
different kinds of AI solutions. 

•  Well  versed  with  Agile  Scrum framework,  IT  Service  management  (ITSM),  Business  Analysis 
Body  of  Knowledge  and  Business  Process  Model  and  Notation  (BPMN);  Corporate  Communications 
within  which  people  can  address  complex  adaptive  problems  while  productively  and  creatively 
delivering  products  of  the  highest  possible  value.  Define  the  data  governance,  management,  and 
ownership frameworks that will ensure data quality is created and maintained.  

•  Proven record of building IT system architecture and solutions, delivering, piloting and driving 
several businesses ideas into IT applications. Ability to bring benefits of Artificial Intelligence to solve 
business, decreasing costs, and minimizing risks.  

•  Hands  on  experience  in  designing  &  modeling,  disaster  recovery  solutions,  real  application 
cluster, end-to-end systems engineering, data warehousing, systems integration, strategic planning, 
workflow streamlining, and concurrent project oversight. 

•  Excellent  technical  documentation,  project  management,  analytical  reasoning,  problem 
solving and business analysis skills and ability to work independently, and collaboratively as part of 
team of business analysts, technical developers, and business stakeholders. 

Skills 

•  Leadership& Stakeholder management 
•  IT Operations & Management skills 
•  Program Management & Development 
•  Predictive & Prescriptive Analysis 
•  Communication and Collaboration skills 
•  Electronic Commerce Strategy/Development 

•  Strong analytical & problem solving 
•  Technical & Business Documentation 
•  Project Management & Delivery 
•  Data & Quantitative Analysis 
•  Solution & Decision Analysis 
•  Business Process Modeling & Improvement  

Experience 
Chief Business Analyst 
(Remote Location) 

• 

 

Monsterhub, Inc 
Brisbane, Australia 

 
2 Year  
October 2018 to Current 
Leading off-shore technical team of 12 multinational members spanning over three countries 
involved  in  designing,  developing,  optimizing  and  supporting  various  Business  and  AI 
applications  for  clients  powered  by  serverless  and  container  architecture  using  AWS  cloud 
services. 

 

Page 1 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

• 

Identify and improve areas of poor performance in the application architectures, and ensure 
systems are met with current industry standards. Make recommendations for improvement, 
identify need for data recovery, governance and growth. Lead the company in the execution 
of  internal  projects  and  managing  technical  team  for  analysis,  design,  development  and 
maintenance  of  business  applications,  disaster  recovery,  and  propose  new  IT  solutions  to 
enhance business operations. 

•  Planned and executed research and development of NLP based AI solution utilizing NLTK while 
exploring other models to recognize the suicide threats from the chat conversation, Realtime 
facial  recognition  expression,  gender,  emotion,  distraction,  and  object  detection  for  AI 
Proctoring system.  

• 

• 

• 

Ensuring  the  adherence  to  a  consistent  standardized  service  delivery  model  rooted  in  IT 
Service Management (ITSM) best practices and work with technical and development teams 
to deploy models. Build Model Performance Reports and Modeling Technical Documentation 
to support each of the models for the product line. 

Leading and mentoring juniors in systems analysis and design, technical documentation and 
business process modelling. Coaching and mentoring team mates on developing data analytics, 
BI reporting using prescriptive and predictive analysis. 

Lead strategic planning to achieve business goals by identifying and prioritizing development 
initiatives and setting timetables for the evaluation, development, and deployment of all SaaS 
and  ML  services.  Documenting  machine  learning  experience  and  share  with  stakeholders, 
explaining the cost & benefit analysis. 

Chief Business Analyst 
 

Council of Ministers 
State of Kuwait 

3 Years 
December 2014 to April 2018 
•  Perform Data Profiling and trend analysis to learn about behaviors using descriptive statistics 
and Identified challenges and arranged areas of improvement and put best practices in place; 
utilized several Machine learning algorithms using matrix factorization models to better detect 
groups or clusters in various data sets for job matching system. 

•  Developed  forecasting  model  to  be  used  in  integrated  hiring  and  planning.  Conducted 
Marketing  Mix  Measurement,  campaign  analysis,  program  optimization,  customer 
segmentation, ROI analysis, and predictive modeling. 

•  Developed  a  comprehensive,  nation-wide  functional  and  UAT  test  plans,  evaluated  the  re-
engineered  disaster  recovery  and  business  continuity  processes  and  performed  detailed 
testing  on  three  application  developments  and  implementations,  a  major  private  cloud 
upgrade, and a major consolidation of three legacy systems resulted in saving of more than 
$340K  yearly.  Implemented  technical  and  business  documentation,  feasibility  studies  and 
metrics development standards. 

Spearheaded  development  of  proto-type  system  for  Civil  Service  Commission  Kuwait,  to 
centralized Statewide hiring of Citizens, and designed skill-based assessments system, which 
increased hiring response by 96% resulting signed into law by Amir of Kuwait in 2018.  

Identified  technology  trends  and  evolving  social  behaviors,  supported  by  evidence-based 
analysis  impeding  customer  satisfaction  and  business  success.  Led  a  team  of  professionals 

Page 2 of 6 

• 

• 

 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

from  different  business  units  responsible  for  implementing  an  automated  service  delivery 
focused  web  service,  which  successfully  increased  website  visits  by  100K  monthly  and  HR 
production by 76%.  

Chief Business Analyst 
 

Kuwait University 
State of Kuwait 

3 Years 
January 2011 to October 2014 
•  Directed  development  and  deployment  of  Kuwait  Register  Based  Census  System  (KRBCS), 
Data warehouse with Business Intelligence based on various terabytes of data sources through 
phased, iterative releases - each delivered on time and within budget using applied principles 
of  agile  methodologies.  KRBCS  primarily  designed  to  produce  statistical  report,  Predictive 
modelling,  forecasting  and  outlier  detection.  required  by  the  State  of  Kuwait,  Central 
Statistical Office and UNDP. 

•  Defined  scope  and identified high-risk areas for  integration between  core  statistical  system 
and multiple existing systems; Defined functional and non-functional business requirements 
for  Centralizing  Data  warehouse  containing  data  from  government  registries  i.e.  Civil 
Information,  Tax  Revenue,  Interior,  Justice  and  Municipal.  Developing  technical  and  non-
technical system documentation. 

•  Analyzed complex data flows and data elements for specific use cases using case diagrams and 
defined requirements traceability across the project lifecycle and used process modeling tools 
(BPMN) to define process and requirements. 

•  Analyzed and implementing unsupervised machine learning algorithms to identify and extract 
Parent - child relationship to solve hidden polygamous marriages, to detect hidden pattern of 
Unreported  Income,  using  Centroid  divisive  hierarchical  clustering  and  Gaussian  mixture 
methods.  

•  Designed  &  Developed  architecture,  methodology  and  strategy  for  harvesting  900  central 
statistical office census rules, utilizing Clustering and classification algorithms, SQL procedures 
for capturing and documenting business rules, for data verification, improving data quality by 
90% as compared to the manual system. 

Business Analytics Manager 
 

HP – AL- Khaldiya 
State of Kuwait 

1 Year  
March 2010 to December 2010 

• 

Increased sales by 34% by Identifying critical factors by developing and maintain relationships 
with key stakeholders across value delivery, product, engineering and operations to help your 
team succeed. 

•  Analyze  key  performance  metrics  to  measure  effectiveness  and  drive 

improvements, 
implement  best  practices  around  data  manipulation,  building  data  pipelines,  feature 
engineering and creating dashboards. 

• 

Systematized  a  repeatable  process  for  delivering  advanced  analytics  solutions  and  data 
products in collaboration with other technology and business leaders and customers. Actively 
support hiring and team development plans for department. 

Sr. Business Analyst &  
IT Project Manager 

Tawasul Telecom 
State of Kuwait 

2 Years  
September 2008 to January 2010 

 

Page 3 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

• 

Translating  product  roadmaps  and  feature  requests  into  models,  workflow  diagrams,  user 
stories,  acceptance  criteria,  and  understanding  design,  business 
logic,  and  technical 
architecture of customer platform components and how those components interact with the 
rest of the platform to deliver integrated solutions. 

•  Developed predictive causal model using annual failure rate and standard cost basis for the 
new  bundled  services.  Working  with  product  management,  development,  and  other 
departments  to  actively remove  obstacles  blocking  progress  and  ensure  program  is  within 
schedule 

•  Develop change management and data quality processes to ensure users of data are able to 
focus on insights. Led the design and development of visualization tools for business units by 
publishing  KPIs/Metrics to  be used to  measure the effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  managed 
solutions portfolio. 

• 

Supervising and supporting product management, marketing, sales, training documentation, 
providing  technical  support  throughout  the  release  process  by  developing  and  maintaining 
systems technical documentation, announcements, and other release activities. 

•  Developed an Estimation model for various product & services bundled offering to optimize 

and predict the gross margin 

•  Created work estimates, track progress, and report status in the form of burn up/down charts 

and prioritizing and grooming their teams’ backlog. 

•  Build  and  trained  team  of  4  Project  managers,  implemented  department  level  standards, 
Actively developed Solution implementation handbooks, database recovery manual, and other 
technical documentation. 

Senior Data Analyst 
 

Zain Group 
Khartoum, Sudan 

1 Year  
October 2007 to July 2008 
•  Designed and Implemented two nodes for billing and three nodes for history, eCare and web 
portal Oracle Real Application Cluster. Using Data Guard, Oracle Streams and Oracle Flashback 
Technology to ensure 24 x 7 business continuity. 

• 

Implementing  a  combination  of  MAA  to  achieve  2.5  minutes  downtime,  for  12  Oracle 
databases using Oracle Real Application Clusters, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Streams, Oracle 
Flashback Technology, and Automatic Storage Management (ASM). 

•  Project Manager for data migration from the old billing system (Mobex and Apex) on Informix 

to oracle (Telecommunication Administration and Billing System: TABS).  

•  Collaborated  with data  engineers  and operation  team to  implement the ETL process,  wrote 

and optimized SQL queries to perform data extraction to fit the analytical requirements. 

• 

Explored and analyzed the customer specific features by using Matplotlib, and performed data 
imputation using Scikit-learn package in Python. Worked on data cleaning and ensured data 
quality, consistency, integrity using Pandas, NumPy. 

•  Worked  with  data  compliance  teams,  Data  governance  team  to  maintain  data  models, 

Metadata, Data Dictionaries; define source fields and its definitions. 

 

Page 4 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

•  Deployed tuning techniques to optimize database response time with over 40 million records 
updates per 5 minutes. Designed and implemented data load procedure for web portal and 
data warehouse reducing 70% of data loading time. 

•  Decreased software-licensing cost by 50% ($1.2 Million) by designing architectural standards 
for the CSX database infrastructure and implementing only required database technologies for 
new business operations.  

Data Processing Manager 
 

Z-Investment 
State of Kuwait 

•  Planned,  organized  and  managed  startup’s  data  processing  operations, 

2 Years  
October 2005 to September 2007 
including 
implementation of dedicated channel for stock trading and eCommerce platform for portfolio 
holders under the general direction of finance director. 

•  Planned,  scheduled  and  supervised 

implementation  of  Oracle  Financials  &  Oracle 
Collaboration Suit for the company and the entire group to save an estimated $20K annually.  

•  Provide technical expertise to other departments concerning operational priorities, evaluate 
the  company’s  data  processing  needs,  meet  and  coordinate  activities  with  data  processing 
vendors, determine equipment needs and make assessments.  

•  Responsible  for  equipment  procurement  and 

installation,  aiding  other  departments; 
evaluating  and  recommending  appropriate  programs,  monitoring  and  assessing  installed 
applications and meeting with users to determine data processing needs.  

• 

Seasonally identify and fix information system problems, determine new system requirements, 
modifications  or  upgrades  necessary  to  existing  systems,  create  systems  and  supporting 
documentation,  oversee  and  coordinate  overall  systems  development  and  modification  of 
applications software. 

• 

Effectively hired and trained system administrator and the team of two junior developers.   

Senior Systems Analyst 

Kuwait Insurance Company 
 State of Kuwait 

4 Years  
December 2001 to September 2005 
•  Performed analysis on claims vs insurance and overall trends using multiple data sources to 
lead  team  members  to  develop  Premium  calculation  engine  implemented  in  business 
applications. 

• 

Translated the business needs into detailed business requirement specifications.  

•  Created high-level and detailed UML activity diagrams, use cases, and decision matrices for all 

requirements.  

•  Actively participated in planning, resourcing and execution of advanced analytics products and 
projects  across  a  variety  of  business  units  namely,  Insurance,  Re-Writing,  Shareholder  and 
Dividend processing, Claims departments. 

•  Collaborated  and  Coordinated  with  multiple  business  units  during  the  development  cycle, 

conveyed complex technical issues to diverse and senior audiences. 

 

Page 5 of 6 

Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

+1 (431) 373-3795 
me@nabeelkhan.com 
Winnipeg, Canada 

• 

Translated Business requirements into System specifications for effective communication with 
both technical and non-technical individuals. 

Database Administrator 
 

Kuwait Insurance Company 
State of Kuwait 
•  Responsible  for  designing,  creating, 

installing,  configuring  and  maintaining  Three  (3) 
production Oracle databases used for business applications deployed on Digital Alpha Servers 
HP- TRU64 UNIX, Windows 2000 and Red Hat Linux servers. 

2 Years 
September 1999 to December 2001 

•  Designed and configured a 2-Node and a 4-Node Oracle 9i RAC (Real Application Cluster) using 
data guard to replicate to 2 standby databases as a high-availability solution for the medical 
claim system used online. Setup and administer 9i Physical Standby databases as part of the 
disaster recovery strategy; this meets the 15-minute maximum downtime requirement by CEO. 

• 

• 

The technical architect for the data warehouse with an input of over 250 approx. F iles every 
month from various sources.  Developed automated process that would validate, cleanse and 
report aggregated erroneous data, alert business users and substantially ease support effort 
— interacted with developers to ensure proper loading of data. 

Tuned  SQL  statements,  programmed  security  policies  through  roles  and  database  triggers, 
managed all Oracle Objects (Tables, Indexes, Views, Procedures, Triggers, Functions), analyzed 
tables, reorganized indexes, rebuilding indexes and constraints as needed.  

•  Applied Archive files for Time Based Recovery, using Import, Export, Cold backups to replicate 

and reproduce database to point in time. 

Education 

•  Bachelor of Computer Science (BCS), 1999 
•  Master of Computer Science (MCS), 2010 - Thesis Title: Automated Data Mapping in Register 

Based Census Arabic 

Certifications and Professional Training 
• 

Leading Strategic Innovation 
 (Vanderbilt University) 

Solution Selling by Solution Science 

•  Artificial Intelligence for Business 
•  Gamification (UPENN) 
• 
•  Real Applications Clusters 
•  Data Modeling Concepts 
•  RDBMS & Data Warehousing Concepts 
 

•  A Beginner's Guide to Irrational Behavior 

 (Duke University) 

•  Data Analysis (Johns Hopkins University) 
•  Machine Learning: Real-World Applications 
•  Certified Oracle Professional 8/9i/10g 
•  Implementing Netscreen Security Gateways 
•  Software Business Analysis 
•  Ethical Hacking 

 

Page 6 of 6 

